# Lazen
The Lazen Programming Language

<h2>Why ?</h2>

 Lazen is made to be an interpreted AND compiled open-source, object-oriented, efficient, simple, dynamically-typed and duck-typed             programming language.
<br><br>

Way many programming languages were created in the past, and everyday, a new programming language is created. I've personally used many good programming languages in my programming life. Lazen is modest. It will not try to be "original" or to invent some completly new programming concepts and/or paradigms. It is made for being one of the simplest and "universal" programming language. It is made for programmers who want to code what they think, it is made for programmers who want to spend more time on thinking about the final render of their software/code than on trying to fix syntaxic bugs/trying to understand syntax and/or looking for help on forums. Yes, with some advanced knowledge you should have less syntaxic/compilation/interpretation errors. But why not having less errors right now ? Without needing any advanced programming knowledge ? Lazen is made for that. When you're programming with Lazen, you think about your software itself less than his source code.
<br><br>

Python, as an example, was the best programming language I have used before Lazen. Lazen is inspired by Python's and C#'s languages syntaxes. The syntax of many languages that inspired Lazen are pretty good, tiny, efficient, easy and fast to learn, read and understand.
<br><br>
Lazen is simple, it doesn't offers hundreds of solutions for every idea, but every solutions it offers are simple, fast-forward and efficient.

</h2>Many reasons Why you should start learning the Lazen programming language today.</h2>

1) It's interpreted/compiled, wrote via an interpreted language, but it's fast. Why ? 
Because of his super-compact bytecode compilation. Yes. With Lazen, once you will decide to compile your source-code,
it will generate a LZB (Lazen Bytecode) file. There are many optimisations done by the compiler on the generated bytecode, the bytecode is hard to understand for humans and more than easy to understand for computers. Lazen and all the final byte-code files it generates are cross-platform.

2) It's all open-source and made from A to Z, without using any programming-language creation tool. 
You can see by yourself the parsing-tree or the bytecode compilation of your own source code using a flag on console-mode !

3) It's non-competitive, although it tries to be fast, it is non-competitive and it will never be competitive. It means it just tries to have the same performances as other programming languages. The principal goal of Lazen is to share knowledge and programming-pleasure with programmers and programming newbies.

4) It's long-living and it's often updated. Yes Lazen is often updated because :

- It's made with pure programming and compilers/interpreters theory passion.

- Anyone can contribute ! Lazen is not on github for no reason, it's there because I want people to contribute to this project. Don't hesitate, if you have any change to make about Lazen, just follow the steps <a href="https://gist.github.com/MarcDiethelm/7303312">here</a>.
